// narrator script

Hello again :)

In the first level, we pressed buttons to schedule different move sequences. That was
a cool metaphor for how coding works - you give instructions, and the computer will 
follow them in order. The only difference between that and real coding is that 
there isn't a button for everything one might want a computer to do. 

Instead, we use programming languages to translate instructions into a format
that the computer can understand. In this level, we'll learn on one of the most
foundational instructions in a programming language - variable creation. 

Variables are essentially named containers for data. There are many different types of
variables that one can make, and each can be used to track different sorts of data and 
do different kinds of things. This is all very hand wavey, as it's impossible to explain
in a single paragraph. Instead, I think it will be easier to just let you explore.

I've set up an escape-room style level, based around the idea of creating and using 
different types of variables. To get you started, the only advice I will give is 

try pressing tab

The rest is up to you - good luck!

// in HelloWorld:

Welcome to the codebase :)

I'm actually not going to abandon you as much as an escape room might. 
Instead, I'm leaving you some documentation. It should help a little, but
you'll still need to figure out a thing or two to solve the level.

Some very basic things to know about the editor:

1. Press TAB to open, press ESCAPE to close
2. One of the buttons on the left pops the file explorer panel in / out, 
   if at any point you find yourself needing more space
3. On a lot of the files, you'll see a lock icon to the left of the line 
   numbers. that means the line is read only, and you can't edit it. 
4. For files that you can change, there is pretty good hotkey support. For
   instance, if you manage to accidentally break the code, you can spam 
   CTRL+Z to undo your changes. 

I'd recommend checking out all of the files as well, you wouldn't expect to
beat an escape room without reading all of the clues right?

// in Digital Logic:

Digital logic is a way of using diagrams to describe different logical
expressions like (a AND b), (x OR y), NOT(c)

Basically, each operator (AND, OR, NOT, etc..) has a specific shape that
represents it. We draw lines into the shape to denote inputs, and a single
line out of each shape for the resulting output. 

But here's the thing - This UI doesn't really do pictures, and I can't be
bothered to code all that. And this is an escape room, you should expect 
some difficulty. I'm not just going to spoon feed you every answer. 
Especially when not doing so makes my life easier. But just know, this is a 
hint. Maybe there are some digital logic diagrams in the level that you have 
to do something with. who's to say?

// In primitive declarations

The magic words for declaring a variable are as follows:

<TYPE> <NAME> = <VALUE> ;

let's break down what each of these mean

--TYPE--

There are all sorts of types, but today let's just focus on the 3 most 
basic ones. These would be ints, booleans, and doubles.

ints are whole numbers, booleans are true / false values, and doubles
are numbers that aren't necessarily whole and store places after the 
decimal point.

to initialize a variable of any of these types, you just use that types
name (either "int", "boolean", or "double") in place of <TYPE> is in the 
template.

--NAME--

Name can be almost anything you want. It's just how you will refer to
the variable you create. There are a couple rules, but for the most part
it's pretty freeform.

Names can't start with a number, or contain certain special characters. 
Each programming language also has it's own set of "reserved" keywords that 
can't be used. Chances are, if you think of a name made of normal letters,
it will be fine. And if it's not, the programming language will tell you
when you try to run your code.

--VALUE--

Value just needs to be something matching TYPE. So for instance, if type 
were "int", you would expect value to be something like 0, 1, etc...

for "boolean", you would expect true or false

for "double", you could see something like 1.5

--PUTTING IT ALL TOGETHER--

so with all of those pieces in mind, and not forgetting the '=' or the ';', 
a variable declaration would look something like:

int i = 0;

but you can use different stuff in place of <TYPE>, <NAME, <VALUE> depending
on what you wanna make, what you wanna call it, etc...

// in compile and run

You may have noticed a green triangle button in the top right. That is the 
most powerful tool in your possession - compile and run. 

If you pull up a code file and click the button, it will try to compile and
run whatever is there. If the code "compiles" i.e. if you've followed the
language rules, it will be able to run, and effectuate some real change in 
the world. you could even try changing some of the unlocked lines for 
different results! 